**Winston Nilumol**

1857 Kentucky Street, Redwood City CA, 94061 • (408) 857-8432 •
winston.nilumol@gmail.com

**[Summary]{.smallcaps}**

Strategic program leader with 10+ years of experience at the
intersection of biotech, operations, and technology enablement. Proven
success driving complex, cross-functional initiatives across R&D, GMP
manufacturing, and enterprise SaaS. Adept at designing operational
frameworks, leading multi-stakeholder engagements, and optimizing
systems that support long-range goals. Skilled in aligning business and
scientific teams through clear communication, structured planning, and
scalable process design. Passionate about translating technical detail
into strategic impact.

**[Professional Experience]{.smallcaps}**

**Personal Sabbatical,** June 2024 -- June 2025

Took time off to care for family, travel, and explore personal
interests. Maintained technical fluency through building apps and
staying up-to-date on latest GenAI developments. Returning with renewed
energy, clarity, and focus.

**Benchling**, San Francisco, California

**Scientific Solutions Consultant** Jan 2022 -- June 2024

- Led end-to-end pre-sales engagements as a strategic partner to global
  biopharma clients to assess technical and business needs. Owned
  customer lifecycle from initial discovery to implementation handoff.

- Generated \$2M+ ARR through new lands and expansion opportunities
  across SMB and enterprise accounts; ranked top 2 performing Solutions
  Consultant in Strategic Enterprise segment for FY24.

- Led discovery sessions to uncover IT and business challenges within
  R&D teams across diverse therapeutic areas.

- Delivered technical demonstrations, leveraging SQL and platform
  configurations to tailor solutions for enterprise customers.

- Led proof-of-concept (POC) evaluations and workshops to validate
  product fit and drive adoption.

- Supported RFI/RFP responses for global biopharma companies, aligning
  technical solutions with strategic business initiatives.

- Defined scope of work, timelines, and handoff protocols for post-sale
  execution; partnered with Implementation, Customer Success, and
  Product teams to ensure continued customer success.

- Developed a GTM framework by packaging new product offerings, enabling
  more efficient sales readiness and creating clear SKUs for customers.

- Collaborated with Product Management to provide structured feedback on
  new features and workflows, influencing roadmap decisions.

- Partnered with Marketing to launch a demand generation campaign,
  driving leads and conversions within a new scientific vertical.

- Worked cross-functionally with product and solutions delivery teams to
  ensure product gaps were documented and addressed.

**Genentech**, South San Francisco, California

> **Scientific Program Manager** \| **Sr. Scientific Supervisor** \|
> **Scientific Supervisor** Jul 2013 -- Dec 2022

- Managed a complex portfolio of ongoing projects and programs to enable
  internal R&D and manufacturing that includes resource planning,
  external vendor dependencies, and strategic program priorities. The
  success of our programs improved R&D and manufacturing throughput as
  the process chemistry research teams grew more than 25% from 2013 to
  2022.

- Introduced new frameworks for cross-functional collaboration between
  scientists and internal partners such as facilities, quality, and
  engineering. Implemented the new framework across scientific
  departments to help improve implementation timelines and streamline
  management of resources.

- Built and maintained state-of-the-art laboratory infrastructure to
  ensure cutting-edge, quality-compliant R&D and manufacturing
  capabilities. Led multi-stakeholder projects for facility upgrades and
  implementation of new equipment.

- Directed internal GMP manufacturing operations that served as a
  critical internal capability for small molecule process chemistry
  teams. Oversaw end-to-end delivery of clinical API batches for
  early-phase and tech transfer programs.

- Managed technical capabilities across critical vendors including
  equipment design, laboratory services, and critical research
  applications.

- Created and maintained standard operating procedures (SOPs) and
  training documentation to enable FDA audit readiness and seamless
  cross-training.

- Presented program status and outcomes to executive leadership,
  integrating metrics on batch throughput, resource utilization, and
  compliance trends.

- Recruited and led a research and development team of 6 team members to
  support all aspects of drug development and manufacturing of active
  pharmaceutical ingredients (API).

- SME in highly potent containment manufacturing and invited to speak at
  9^th^ annual HP API Summit in 2020.

- SME for cleaning and rationale and a member of the Small Molecule IMP
  Cleaning Forum; global Roche committee dedicated to leading best
  practices for cleaning rationale in early development and
  manufacturing.

- Member of the Manufacturing Mass Intensity Green Chemistry Institute
  Pharmaceutical Round Table (GCIPR) committee to track and reduce
  manufacturing waste and report findings within the industry.

**Merck & Co., Inc.,** Durham, North Carolina Feb 2012 -- Jul 2013

> **Lead Bio-Process Technician** \| **Senior Bio-Process Technician**
> \| **Bio-Process Technician**

- Supervised the vaccine production process on the manufacturing shop
  floor that included 30+ technicians; tracked the key performance
  indicators and communicated daily goals and plans to team members;
  reviewed and reconciled electronic batch records (MES and DeltaV) for
  quality compliance and performed quality investigations on deviations.

**[Education]{.smallcaps}**

Bachelor of Science, General Biology, University of California -- San
Diego Jun 2011

**[Skills & Awards]{.smallcaps}**

Data, Engineering, and Quality Systems: Firebase Studio, python, R,
Veeva, TrackWise, SAP, AutoCAD, MES, and Delta V

GxP/ISO Experience: 21 CFR Part 11/58/820/210/211, ISO 9001, ISO 13485.
ISO 17025

Qualification and Validation Experience: User Requirement Specification,
Impact Assessments, Criticality Assessments, Risk assessments: FHA/PHA,
and FMEA, Commissioning and Qualification, and Computer Systems
Validation.

Genentech Key Researcher Award (awarded to top 5%)

**[Additional]{.smallcaps}**

**Southeast Asian Development Center (SEADC)** \| **Board Member**, SF,
California Jul 2020 -- Feb 2022

- Strategic planning focusing on outreach and awareness, programming,
  and fund development

**Minds Matter** \| **SVP of Programs and Mentor**, San Francisco,
CaliforniaSep 2014 -- May 2018

- Led program budget and operations for summer enrichment programs to
  mentees
